ADR to Propose Hashing Scanner Findings to Detect Duplicates (#225)
secureCodeBox/secureCodeBox: docs/adr/adr_0007.adoc

[[ADR-0007]]

> = ADR-0007: Proposel How to Mark Findings With Hashes to Find Duplicates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= ADR-0007: Proposal How to Mark Findings With Hashes to Find Duplicates
```

[cols="h,d",grid=rows,frame=none,stripes=none,caption="Status",%autowidth]
|====
// Use one of the ADR status parameter based on status
// Please add a cross reference link to the new ADR on 'superseded' ADR.
// e.g.: {adr_suposed_by} <<ADR-0000>>
| Status
| PROPOSED

| Date
| 2020-11-25

| Author(s)
| Sven Strittmatter <Sven.Strittmatter@iteratec.com>
// ...
|====

== Context

> We need the posibility to find duplicate findings. One use case is that we want to accept a finding and wnat to ignore the same findingin the future.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We need the possibility to find duplicate findings. One use case is that we want to accept a finding and want to ignore the same finding in the future.
```

> === Asumptions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Assumptions
```

* The execution order of hooks is unspecified.
* The information if a finding's hash is a duplicate is not stored or maintained in the SCB S3 storage.
* The SCB *does not remove findings*: Read/write hooks may alter them, but never delete or filter them out.
** Maybe a read hook may decide to not store a finding into an external system.

== Decision

* We generate a hash over each finding so we can compare findings by the hash and identify duplicates.

> * This hash is mutable and may be altered by read/write hooks because we do not wnat to introduce an exception to what a read/write hook may alter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* This hash is mutable and may be altered by read/write hooks because we do not want to introduce an exception to what a read/write hook may alter.
```

> * The parser generates the intial hash of a finding over attributes some attributes of finding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The parser generates the initial hash of a finding over attributes some attributes of finding
```

> ** Each scanner has default set of hashed attributes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** Each scanner has a default set of hashed attributes.
```

** This set of hashed attributes may be overwritten.
* Each read/write hook updates hash as last step.

We implement the hashing step in the parser first with feature flag to evaluate this proposal.

== Consequences

> * We must not introduce an orderingfor the hooks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* We don't need to introduce an ordering for the read-write-hooks.
```

> * The duplicate detection/handling must done is another service with its own data storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The duplicate detection/handling has to be done in another service with its own data storage.
```

[cols="h,d",grid=rows,frame=none,stripes=none,caption="Status",%autowidth]
|====
// Use one of the ADR status parameter based on status
// Please add a cross reference link to the new ADR on 'superseded' ADR.
// e.g.: {adr_suposed_by} <<ADR-0000>>
| Status
| PROPOSED

| Date
| 2020-11-25

| Author(s)
| Sven Strittmatter <Sven.Strittmatter@iteratec.com>
// ...
|====

NOTE: The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2119[RFC 2119].

== Context

We need the possibility to find duplicate findings. One use case is that we want to accept a finding and want to ignore the same finding in the future.

=== Assumptions

* The execution order of _hooks_ is unspecified.
* The information if a finding's hash is a duplicate MUST NOT be stored or maintained in the _SCB_ S3 storage.
* The _SCB_ MUST NOT remove findings: _read-write-hooks_ may alter them, but never delete or filter them out.
** Maybe a _read-hooks_ MAY decide to not store a finding into an external system.

== Decision

> * We generate a hash over each finding so we can compare findings by the hash and identify duplicates.

Reviewer 2: We generate a hash *for* each finding
